this is the Pentax K 30 and as soon as
you pick it up you'll notice it feels a
little bit more solid than the average
entry-level SLR for a start it has one
of the deepest most ergonomic t-shaped
grips that we've come across and there
are several textured areas that give it
extra purchase the robust feel of the
camera is backed up by 81 seals that
keep weather dust and sand at bay in
fact we took this camera and the 18 to
55 mil weather sealed lens out for a
couple of hours during pouring rain and
had no problems using it even though
there was water all over it inside the
protective shell is a 16 million pixel
aps-c format CMOS sensor which is able
to move to compensate for camera shake
as this shake reduction system is inside
the camera it can be used with any
mountable lens on the back of the camera
is a 3-inch 920,000 dot LCD screen which
provides a nice clear view in orbit the
brightest light there's also an optical
viewfinder and unusually for an
entry-level camera it provides a hundred
percent coverage of the scene the
battery compartment is interesting
because it's designed to accept either
the supplied lithium ion battery or for
widely available double-a batteries
although the K 30 gets the subject sharp
with reasonable speed the AF system
isn't the fastest available so despite
the six frames per second maximum
shooting rate this may not be the camera
for shooting sport and the kit lens
still produces that familiar Pentax
sound there's plenty of opportunity to
take control over your images with the
usual PASM exposure options as well as
pen taxes s V or sensitivity priority
mode and T AV mode in T AV mode you set
the shutter speed in aperture and the
camera sets the appropriate sensitivity
there's also a collection of color modes
we particularly like the results in
black and white mode when the contrast
has pushed to the maximum setting in
addition there are digital filters such
as toy camera retro and high contrast
that can be applied to JPEG images as
they are shot these produce some nice
effects but it can take a couple of
seconds for the images to process after
shooting
image quality from the K 30 is pretty
impressive with an emphasis on detail
capture rather than noise reduction as
with other Pentax cameras the metering
system has a tendency to underexpose
when there are brighter areas within the
scene but at least this helps preserve
the highlights helpfully RAW files are
saved in the DNG format so they can be
processed using a range of software
without a need for an update all things
considered I'm pretty impressed with the
Pentax K 30 for more information take a
look at our review at techradar.com